.TH RUUID 1 "July 2026" "ruuid-tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ruuid \- generate and resolve Resolvable UUIDs (RUUIDs)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ruuid generate
.I ADDRESS
.RI [ IDENTIFIER ]
.RB [ --type
.IR N ]
.RB [ --day
.IR DATE ]
.RB [ --opaque ]
.br
.B ruuid resolve
.I UUID
.RB [ --registry
.IR URL ]
.RB [ --follow [= WHAT ]]
.RB [ --verbose ]
.RB [ --verify ]
.br
.B ruuid parse
.I UUID
.RB [ --registry
.IR URL ]
.br
.B ruuid document
.B --zone
.I FILE
.RB [ --domain
.IR DOMAIN ]
.br
.B ruuid records
.B --zone
.I FILE
.RB [ --domain
.IR DOMAIN ]
.RB [ --rrtype
.IR TYPE ]
.RB [ --ttl
.IR N ]
.br
.B ruuid anchor
.B --zone
.I FILE
.RB [ --bind
.IR ADDR ]
.RB [ --dns-port
.IR N ]
.RB [ --http-port
.IR N ]
.RB [ --https-port
.IR N ]
.RB [ --rrtype
.IR TYPE ]
.br
.B ruuid seal
.I ADDRESS
.I DOMAIN
.RB [ --type
.IR N ]
.RB [ --day
.IR DATE ]
.RB [ --production ]
.RB [ --challenge
.IR WHAT ]
.RB [ --webroot
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ --no-domain-cert ]
.RB [ --pre-rotate ]
.RB [ --commit-host
.IR HOST ]
.RB [ --nameserver
.IR HOST [: PORT ]]
.RB [ --out
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ --acme
.IR PATH ]
.br
.B ruuid coverage
.I ADDRESS
.RB [ --day
.IR DATE ]
.RB [ --seals
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ --include-staging ]
.br
.B ruuid rotate
.I STATE_DIR
.RB [ --out
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ --production ]
.RB [ --challenge
.IR WHAT ]
.RB [ --webroot
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ --commit-host
.IR HOST ]
.RB [ --acme
.IR PATH ]
.br
.B ruuid custody
.I RUUID
.RB [ --out
.IR FILE ]
.br
.B ruuid verify
.I RUUID
.RI [ DOCUMENT ]
.RB [ --custody
.IR FILE ]
.RB [ --emit-custody
.IR FILE ]
.br
.B ruuid sct
.I CERT
.RB [ --min
.IR N ]
.RB [ --log-list
.IR FILE ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ruuid
is the reference CLI for Resolvable UUIDs, a UUIDv8 variant whose 64-bit
network field carries an IPv6 /64 (or 6to4-encoded IPv4 /32) network prefix
that maps to a DNS domain via reverse DNS. It generates, resolves, and serves
RUUIDs end-to-end \(en a Python implementation of the Internet-Draft.
.SH GENERATE
.B ruuid generate \fIADDRESS\fR [\fIIDENTIFIER\fR] [\fB--type\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB--day\fR \fIDATE\fR] [\fB--opaque\fR]
.PP
Mint a new RUUID with
.I ADDRESS
as the IPv4 or IPv6 address whose network prefix is encoded into the UUID.
.I IDENTIFIER
is the 48-bit identifier as decimal or
.RI 0x -hex.
When
.I IDENTIFIER
is omitted, one is generated per the recommended construction in I-D \[sc]7.3:
20-bit count of days since 2025-01-01 UTC, followed by a 28-bit cryptographically
random sequence.
.TP
.B \-\-type \fIN\fR
10-bit type field (default 0).
.TP
.B \-\-day \fIDATE\fR
Day to use for the
.I day_count
high bits of the structured identifier, either as
.B YYYY-MM-DD
or as a bare integer count of days since 2025-01-01 UTC. Defaults to today UTC.
Per the spec, MUST be a day on which the caller held the network prefix and
MUST NOT be in the future. Mutually exclusive with
.BR --opaque .
.TP
.B \-\-opaque
Generate a plain 48-bit cryptographically random identifier instead of the
structured form. Hides tenure information at the cost of a narrower collision
bound. Mutually exclusive with
.BR --day .
.SH RESOLVE
.B ruuid resolve \fIUUID\fR [options]
.PP
Run the spec's resolution pipeline: PTR lookup of the reverse-DNS name, URI
query at
.RI _uuid. <domain>
(falling back to TXT), then optional HTTP(S) fetch of the UUID document and
template substitution to get the referent URI.
.TP
.B \-\-registry \fIURL\fR
Registry endpoint URL to try first. Default:
.B dns://127.0.0.1:53
(where
.B ruuid anchor
binds by default), so
.B "ruuid anchor ZONE.json"
followed by
.B "ruuid resolve UUID"
works out of the box for the local-anchor workflow. On any failure (anchor not
running, prefix not in zone, timeout, NXDOMAIN at PTR), resolution falls back
to the system DNS resolver. Forms:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B dns://\fIHOST\fR[:\fIPORT\fR]
\(en DNS-protocol endpoint pointed at a specific server. That server is also
used for downstream HTTP hostname resolution (so URLs like
.I https://demo.example.com/...
reach a local
.B ruuid anchor
without
.I /etc/hosts
edits).
.IP \(bu 2
.B doh://\fIHOST\fR[:\fIPORT\fR][/\fIPATH\fR]
\(en RFC 8484 DoH endpoint (path defaults to
.IR /dns-query ).
HTTP fetches use system DNS.
.IP \(bu 2
.B https://\fIHOST\fR[/\fIPATH\fR]
\(en HTTP-API registry endpoint returning the network-prefix-to-domain
binding as JSON. HTTP fetches use system DNS.
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-follow [=\fIWHAT\fR]
Fetch the chain and write the body to stdout. Bare
.B --follow
or
.B =referent
fetches the referent URI body (pipeable into
.IR jq );
.B =document
stops at and fetches the UUID document;
.B =ruuid_document
returns the synthesised per-RUUID DID document (the
.B did:uuid
method's wrapper of the Phase 2 URI);
.B =referent_uri
prints the referent URI without fetching.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose, \-v
Print every step: detail block (network, reverse_name, domain, doc URI,
referent URI), DNS trace (PTR + URI/TXT hops), the UUID document, the
HTTP fetch trace (each GET, status, and any 302 alias hops), and the
referent body.
.TP
.B \-\-verify
.RB "(Experimental.)" " Fold the"
.B verify
check into resolution: fetch the candidate UUID document via the PTR path, then
confirm its committed key is the Certificate-Transparency genesis key for the
RUUID's IP and day. A document whose key is not the genesis key is rejected (exit
non-zero) \(em so a party who acquired a released IP cannot hijack an old RUUID.
If the document asserts a
.I mintingDayRange
that excludes the RUUID, the disclaim is flagged as an honest successor (route to
the genuine controller, the key CT names) rather than an impostor. Overrides the
normal output modes.
.PP
Default output is the UUID-document URI alone, one line, pipeable into
.IR curl .
.SH PARSE
.B ruuid parse \fIUUID\fR [\fB--registry\fR \fIURL\fR]
.PP
Run the spec's resolution pipeline through Phase 2 and print the detail block
plus the DNS/HTTP trace, without fetching or printing any of the body content.
Equivalent to
.B ruuid resolve --verbose
minus the
.IR "--- UUID document ---" ,
.IR "--- did:uuid: Document ---" ,
and
.I "--- referent body ---"
sections.
Useful for "what does this RUUID decode to, and where does the resolution
chain land?" without pulling the referent over the wire.
.B --registry
has the same semantics and default as for
.B ruuid resolve
(default
.IR dns://127.0.0.1:53 ,
fall back to system DNS).
.PP
The
.I identifier
field is followed by a continuation line showing the \[sc]7.3 reading
(20-bit
.IR day_count
+ 28-bit
.IR sequence ),
along with the calendar date implied by
.IR day_count :
.PP
.RS
.nf
identifier:        00000000002a
                   \[sc]7.3: day_count=0 (2025-01-01), sequence=0x000002a
.fi
.RE
.PP
The resolver cannot tell from the bits whether the identifier was actually
constructed under \[sc]7.3 or was opaque 48-bit random \(em both look the same. When
the implied
.I day_count
falls in the future, that's a definite tell that the identifier is opaque
(\[sc]7.3 forbids future day_counts), and the line says so.
.PP
When registry resolution fails entirely (no primary, no system-DNS fallback
that can answer), the DNS-derived fields are shown as
.I "not resolved"
rather than as a wall of timeout output. The bit-level fields
(\fIuuid\fR, \fInetwork\fR, \fIidentifier\fR, \fItype_id\fR, \fIreverse_name\fR)
still print, since those don't depend on DNS. Successful-but-failover paths
suppress the FAILOVR line and per-hop error entries; only the successful
hops print.
.SH DOCUMENT
.B ruuid document --zone \fIFILE\fR [\fB--domain\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR]
.PP
Print the UUID document for a domain entry in the zone file as JSON, suitable
for uploading to
.I https://<domain>/.well-known/uuid-document.json
or wherever the
.RI _uuid. <domain>
URI/TXT record points.
.B --domain
selects one domain when the zone defines more than one.
.SH RECORDS
.B ruuid records --zone \fIFILE\fR [options]
.PP
Print the BIND-style DNS records (PTR per anchor + URI/TXT at
.RI _uuid. <domain> )
to install at the authoritative DNS provider.
.TP
.B \-\-domain \fIDOMAIN\fR
Restrict output to records for one domain's entries (default: emit for all).
.TP
.B \-\-rrtype \fIboth\fR|\fIURI\fR|\fITXT\fR
Restrict the records published at
.RI _uuid. <domain>
to one type (default
.IR both ).
.TP
.B \-\-ttl \fIN\fR
TTL in seconds (default 3600).
.SH ANCHOR
.B ruuid anchor --zone \fIFILE\fR [options]
.PP
Run a long-lived daemon that serves DNS (PTR + URI/TXT at
.RI _uuid. <domain> ,
UDP and TCP) and HTTP(S) (UUID documents + stub referents) for a JSON zone
file. Default ports are 53 (DNS), 80 (HTTP), and 443 (HTTPS when a cert is
present); the privileged defaults need root.
.TP
.B \-\-bind \fIADDR\fR
Address to bind on (default
.IR 127.0.0.1 ).
.TP
.B \-\-dns-port \fIN\fR
UDP+TCP port for DNS (default 53).
.TP
.B \-\-http-port \fIN\fR
TCP port for HTTP (default 80).
.TP
.B \-\-https-port \fIN\fR
TCP port for HTTPS (default 443; HTTPS is only served when a cert is found).
.TP
.B \-\-rrtype \fIboth\fR|\fIURI\fR|\fITXT\fR
Restrict the records published at
.RI _uuid. <domain>
to one type. Default is
.IR both .
Useful for testing a resolver's URI-preferred and TXT-fallback paths in
isolation.
.PP
If
.I /etc/ruuid/anchor-cert.pem
(or
.I ./anchor-cert.pem
in the working directory) exists,
.B ruuid anchor
serves HTTPS alongside HTTP. The
.B ruuid resolve
side trusts the same file with hostname checking off (the demo cert is
shared across many demo hostnames).
.SH SEAL
.B ruuid seal \fIADDRESS\fR \fIDOMAIN\fR [options]
.PP
.B (Experimental.)
Establish a Certificate-Transparency-anchored genesis proof for an RUUID:
durable, third-party-checkable evidence that the issuer controlled the anchor
\(em as of the day of issuance \(em even after the IP prefix, its reverse zone,
or the domain later change hands. Proves, as of the anchor day, control of the
IP address, its reverse zone
.RI ( PTR " \[->] " DOMAIN ),
and the domain. Requires
.B acme.sh
and
.BR openssl .
.PP
The command verifies the PTR, then has
.B acme.sh
obtain two same-key Let's Encrypt certificates \(em an IP-SAN short-lived cert
(routing control of the IP, validated by HTTP-01 or TLS-ALPN-01) and a 90-day
.I dNSName
cert (control of the domain). acme.sh generates the EC (P-256) genesis key while
issuing the IP cert; the domain cert reuses it, so both share one public key and
link in Certificate Transparency under a single SPKI hash. An RUUID is minted
whose
.I day_count
falls inside the IP cert's validity window, and a minimal
Controlled-Identifiers document
.RI ( uuid-document.json )
is written that commits
.B only
that key, via a
.I verificationMethod
.RI ( publicKeyJwk ).
The certificate history is not embedded \(em a document commits the key and
lets CT be the authority, and its
.I service
array is reserved for referent templates, not cert history. The proof is
discoverable from CT via the key's
.I spkiSha256
.RI ( crt.sh?spkisha256= ),
and the cert coordinates are recorded locally in the
.I seal.json
manifest. Artifacts land under
.I ~/.ruuid/seals/<uuid>/
(override with
.BR --out ):
the key, the certs, the domain CSR,
.IR uuid-document.json ,
and
.IR seal.json .
.PP
The proof is historical, not live: the certs are frozen in CT with permanent
SCTs, so one short-lived cert anchors an unbounded batch of RUUIDs sharing the
same
.RI ( network , " day_count" ).
See
.B ruuid coverage
for checking which issue-days a seal already covers.
.TP
.B \-\-type \fIN\fR
10-bit type field for the minted RUUID (default 0).
.TP
.B \-\-day \fIDATE\fR
Anchor day
.RB ( YYYY-MM-DD
or integer
.IR day_count );
MUST fall inside the IP cert's validity window and MUST NOT be in the future.
Default: today UTC, clamped into the window.
.TP
.B \-\-production
Use the real Let's Encrypt endpoint (real CT logging) instead of the default
staging endpoint. Staging exercises the identical flow from an untrusted root and
test CT logs.
.TP
.B \-\-challenge \fIauto\fR|\fIhttp-01\fR|\fItls-alpn-01\fR
ACME challenge for the IP anchor (DNS-01 is invalid for IP identifiers).
.I auto
(default) prefers TLS-ALPN-01, which needs no port-80 takeover, and falls back to
HTTP-01. Ignored when
.B --webroot
is given.
.TP
.B \-\-webroot \fIDIR\fR
Serve the HTTP-01 challenge from an already-running web server's webroot instead
of a standalone listener \(em no port takeover, no downtime. Forces HTTP-01. The
server must serve
.I DIR/.well-known/acme-challenge/
for both the domain and the bare IP (add a static carve-out if the site is
otherwise reverse-proxied).
.TP
.B \-\-no-domain-cert
Skip the same-key domain cert; certify only the IP (domain control then rests on
the local PTR check alone).
.TP
.B \-\-pre-rotate
Generate a successor key
.I K2
cold (offline) and publish a commitment to it in CT \(em a certificate under the
genesis key
.I K1
whose dNSName encodes
.RI spki( K2 )
as
.IR k<base32>.rotate.<domain> .
Signed by
.I K1
and logged in append-only, backdate-proof CT, it pins the successor before
.I K1
is exposed, so a later thief of
.I K1
cannot choose a different successor (earliest-SCT ordering makes the genuine
genesis commitment win). A future
.B ruuid rotate
reveals
.IR K2 .
Needs a wildcard DNS record
.RI * . <commit-host>
pointing at this host;
.I next-key.pem
must be backed up offline and kept cold.
.TP
.B \-\-commit-host \fIHOST\fR
Host under which the pre-rotation commitment dNSName is issued (default
.IR rotate.<domain> );
.RI * . <HOST>
must resolve to this host.
.TP
.B \-\-nameserver \fIHOST\fR[:\fIPORT\fR]
DNS server for the PTR verification (default: system resolver).
.TP
.B \-\-out \fIDIR\fR
Directory for the artifacts (default
.IR ~/.ruuid/seals/<uuid>/ ).
.TP
.B \-\-acme \fIPATH\fR
Path to the
.B acme.sh
script (default: found on
.I PATH
or
.IR ~/.acme.sh/acme.sh ).
.SH COVERAGE
.B ruuid coverage \fIADDRESS\fR [options]
.PP
.B (Experimental.)
Report which issue-days
.RI ( day_count )
are already provable for an anchor. A genesis certificate is never renewed for
liveness \(em the proof is historical, frozen in CT; a fresh
.B ruuid seal
is only needed to mint on a day no existing certificate's validity window covers.
Each
.I seal.json
records the IP cert's window, so
.B coverage
lists the coverable day ranges (merging adjacent or overlapping windows) and,
with
.BR --day ,
checks one date \(em exiting non-zero when it is not covered, so it scripts a
"seal only when needed" workflow:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ruuid coverage 100.57.12.254 --day 2026-09-01 \[rs]
      || ruuid seal 100.57.12.254 uuid.zone --production
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-day \fIDATE\fR
Check whether this day
.RB ( YYYY-MM-DD
or integer
.IR day_count )
is covered; exit 1 if not.
.TP
.B \-\-seals \fIDIR\fR
Directory of seal records to read (default
.IR ~/.ruuid/seals/ ).
.TP
.B \-\-include-staging
Also count staging seals. By default only production seals count, since a staging
certificate lands only in staging CT and proves nothing to third parties.
.SH ROTATE
.B ruuid rotate \fISTATE_DIR\fR [options]
.PP
.B (Experimental.)
Rotate the key of an RUUID sealed with
.BR "seal --pre-rotate" .
.I STATE_DIR
is the previous generation's directory (the seal, or an earlier rotate); it must
hold the cold successor key
.I next-key.pem
and its record
.RI ( seal.json " / " rotation.json ).
Rotation activates that successor (verifying it matches the recorded commitment \(em
no access to the old key is needed, so it works even if the old key is
compromised), generates a fresh cold successor and publishes the new key's
commitment to it in CT (a certificate under the new key whose dNSName encodes the
successor's SPKI), and writes a new
.I uuid-document.json
committing the new key plus a
.I rotation.json
generation record. A verifier walks the chain in CT \(em genesis key, its committed
successor, that key's committed successor, and so on to the tip the document
commits \(em with earliest-SCT ordering to defeat a compromised-key fork. Needs a
wildcard
.RI * . <commit-host>
record pointing at this host.
.TP
.B \-\-out \fIDIR\fR
Output directory (default
.IR ~/.ruuid/seals/<uuid>/gen<N>/ ).
.TP
.B \-\-production
Use real Let's Encrypt (real CT) instead of staging.
.TP
.B \-\-challenge \fIauto\fR|\fIhttp-01\fR|\fItls-alpn-01\fR
ACME challenge for the commitment certificate (default
.IR auto ).
.TP
.B \-\-webroot \fIDIR\fR
Serve the HTTP-01 challenge from a running web server's webroot.
.TP
.B \-\-commit-host \fIHOST\fR
Host for the successor commitment dNSName (default
.IR rotate.<domain> ).
.TP
.B \-\-acme \fIPATH\fR
Path to the
.B acme.sh
script.
.SH CUSTODY
.B ruuid custody \fIRUUID\fR [options]
.PP
.B (Experimental.)
Query Certificate Transparency for the certificates that establish the RUUID's
genesis \(em those carrying the RUUID's IP-address SAN \(em and the genesis key's
forward anchoring timeline, and emit a
.I custody.json
evidence bundle, shaped
.RI ( chain :[ generation ,\ ...]),
so key rotation extends it without a schema break. Needs only the RUUID (the
genesis key is recovered from CT by IP, not from any document). Runnable anywhere
with crt.sh access.
.TP
.B \-\-publish
Instead of querying CT for one RUUID, aggregate this issuer's OWN on-disk
certificates (the
.I *-cert.pem
files under the seals directory, never the private keys) into a self-contained
.I uuid-custody.json
to host at
.IR https://<domain>/.well-known/uuid-custody.json .
Needs no CT query and no RUUID \(em these certs are the CT-logged ones (they carry
their own SCTs), so an issuer serves its own evidence and resolvers verify off it
with
.BR "\-\-bundles" .
.TP
.B \-\-seals \fIDIR\fR
With
.BR \-\-publish ,
the seals directory to scan (default
.IR ~/.ruuid/seals ).
.TP
.B \-\-out \fIFILE\fR
Write the bundle to
.I FILE
(default: stdout).
.SH VERIFY
.B ruuid verify \fIRUUID\fR [\fIDOCUMENT\fR] [options]
.PP
.B (Experimental.)
Recover from Certificate Transparency the key that controlled the RUUID's
network anchor on the day the RUUID encodes. crt.sh indexes the
.I iPAddress
SAN, so the query is by IP: fetch every certificate carrying the RUUID's IP
.RI ( crt.sh?q= <IP>),
keep those whose validity window covers the RUUID's day, and take their public
key as the genesis key \(em only the party who held the IP on that day could
hold such a certificate, and CT is backdate-proof. With
.I DOCUMENT
.RI ( uuid-document.json )
it additionally confirms the document commits that key; without a document it
reports the genuine key and anchoring timeline straight from CT. Because the key
comes from CT and not the document, an impostor document is not just rejected \(em
.B verify
names the genuine key. Exits non-zero when not verified.
.PP
If the document commits a key that is not the genesis key,
.B verify
walks the
.B custody chain
in CT \(em from the genesis key, following each generation's pre-rotation
commitment (see
.B seal --pre-rotate
and
.BR rotate )
to the next \(em and verifies iff the chain reaches the document's key. At each
hop the earliest commitment wins, so a thief of some generation's key cannot fork
the succession (the genuine, pre-exposure commitment is always earlier); a verified
rotated document reports the chain. Re-anchoring the same key to other IPs/domains
appears in the timeline and needs no chain.
.TP
.B \-\-custody \fIFILE\fR
Verify against a pre-built
.I custody.json
bundle (from
.BR "ruuid custody" ),
making the check offline and deterministic. Without it, the bundle is built live
from CT.
.TP
.B \-\-bundles \fIDIR\fR
Verify off a directory of pre-downloaded published custody bundles
.RI ( uuid-custody.json
files served by issuers at
.IR /.well-known/uuid-custody.json )
instead of live crt.sh. The bundles' certificates are unioned and indexed by IP
and key locally, so verification runs entirely offline. Also accepted by
.BR "resolve --verify" .
.TP
.B \-\-fetch-bundles
Discovery cascade for public/decentralized intake: local
.B \-\-bundles
directory (default
.IR ~/.ruuid/bundles )
\(->\& the issuer's published
.I /.well-known/uuid-custody.json
(resolved via the RUUID's IP by PTR) \(->\& crt.sh. Fetched bundles are cached, so
an unknown issuer becomes locally known for every sibling RUUID. Discovery only \(em
verification still checks the certificates against the RUUID's own CT genesis and
chain, so a wrong or hostile domain can never mislead, only fail to help. Also
accepted by
.BR "resolve --verify" .
.TP
.B \-\-verify-scts ", " \-\-min-scts " \fIN\fR"
Gate bundle certificates on valid embedded SCTs at ingest: a bundle certificate
counts toward a genesis or chain hop only if at least
.I N
(default 2) of its Signed Certificate Timestamps verify against trusted CT logs
(see
.BR "ruuid sct" ).
A fabricated certificate carries no verifiable SCTs and is dropped, so an untrusted
bundle becomes trustless; each admitted certificate is stamped with its real SCT
time, which also orders earliest-commitment-wins. crt.sh (the trusted index) is
unaffected. Needs the
.B cryptography
package
.RB ( "pip install 'ruuid[sct]'" ).
Also accepted by
.BR "resolve --verify" .
.TP
.B \-\-emit-custody \fIFILE\fR
Write the custody bundle used for verification to
.IR FILE .
.TP
.B \-\-no-cache ", " \-\-cache-dir " \fIDIR\fR"
Control the permanent per-IP CT cache (default
.IR ~/.ruuid/ct-cache/ ).
Genesis verification depends only on
.RI ( IP ,\  day )
and CT is backdate-proof, so a cached IP entry is an immutable historical fact
that never expires: the first RUUID for an IP does the CT fetch, and every
later RUUID for that IP (any covered day, any sequence) is green-lit locally
with no network.
.B \-\-no-cache
disables it.
.SH SCT
.B ruuid sct \fICERT\fR [options]
.PP
.B (Experimental.)
Verify the Signed Certificate Timestamps embedded in
.I CERT
(a full-chain PEM: leaf then issuer) against a bundled list of trusted CT-log
public keys (RFC 6962). A valid SCT is a log's unforgeable, signed proof that
this exact certificate was logged \(em and therefore issued by a real CA after
real validation \(em so it establishes the certificate is genuine WITHOUT trusting
whoever supplied it. This is what lets a resolver accept a custody bundle from an
untrusted issuer: trust moves from the issuer to the CT log operators (requiring
several independent logs). Fully offline. Needs the
.B cryptography
package
.RB ( "pip install 'ruuid[sct]'" ).
Exit status 0 if enough SCTs verify, 1 if not, 2 if the package is missing.
.TP
.B \-\-min \fIN\fR
Minimum SCTs that must verify against trusted logs (default 2).
.TP
.B \-\-log-list \fIFILE\fR
CT log list JSON in the bundled format (default: the bundled
.IR ct_logs.json ).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/ruuid/anchor-cert.pem
Combined cert+key PEM. Auto-detected by both
.B ruuid anchor
(serves HTTPS) and
.B ruuid resolve
(trusts it). Generated by
.IR "sudo make install-global" .
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/ruuid
The CLI launcher dropped by
.IR "sudo make install-global" .
.TP
.I ~/.local/bin/ruuid
The CLI launcher dropped by
.I make deps
(per-user install).
.TP
.I ~/.ruuid/seals/<uuid>/
Per-anchor records written by
.BR "ruuid seal" :
the genesis key
.RI ( key.pem ,
owner-only), the certificates, the committing
.IR uuid-document.json ,
and a
.I seal.json
manifest.
.B ruuid coverage
reads these.
.SH EXAMPLES
Mint an RUUID and resolve it against a local anchor (the default
.B --registry
is
.IR dns://127.0.0.1:53 ,
so this works without specifying it):
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sudo ruuid anchor --zone demo-zone.json &
$ ruuid generate 192.0.2.42 0xABCDEF --type 7
00000000-abcdef-8200-8072-c000022a0000

$ ruuid resolve 00000000-abcdef-8200-8072-c000022a0000
https://demo.example.com/.well-known/uuid-document.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Mint with a structured identifier (the default when omitted) versus opaque random:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ruuid generate 192.0.2.42                          # day_count = today || random
000147ec-a4f1-8200-8002-c000022a0000

$ ruuid generate 192.0.2.42 --day 2025-01-01         # pinned to epoch (day_count=0)
00000a4f-1234-8200-8002-c000022a0000

$ ruuid generate 192.0.2.42 --opaque                 # 48-bit random
fc18a374-9d3b-8200-8002-c000022a0000
.fi
.RE
.PP
Decode an RUUID and inspect the resolution chain without fetching the
referent body or printing JSON documents:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ruuid parse 00000000-cafe-8200-8012-080808080000
uuid:              00000000-cafe-8200-8012-080808080000
network:           8.8.8.8/32
identifier:        00000000cafe
                   \[sc]7.3: day_count=0 (2025-01-01), sequence=0x0000cafe
type_id:           1
reverse_name:      8.8.8.8.in-addr.arpa
domain:            dns.google
uuid_document_uri: https://dns.google/.well-known/uuid-document.json
                   (template: https://<domain>/<type>/<identifier> [no document; spec default])
referent_uri:      https://dns.google/1/00000000cafe

PTR     8.8.8.8.in-addr.arpa \[->] dns.google
default _uuid.dns.google \[->] using default https://dns.google/.well-known/uuid-document.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Fetch the referent body, pipeable into jq:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ ruuid resolve --follow \fIUUID\fR | jq .
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run a local anchor that publishes only TXT records (for testing a
resolver's TXT-fallback path):
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ sudo ruuid anchor --rrtype TXT --zone demo-zone.json
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR curl (1),
.IR dig (1),
.IR systemd.unit (5).
.PP
Internet-Draft:
.I draft-motters-ruuid
in the
.I ruuid-draft/
directory of the source tree.
